This teaching video is a dramatization presenting key elements of effective TB interviewing
for contact investigation.
The interview is conducted by a practicing public health nurse with an actor.
It is not intended to represent a complete interview.
Although interviewers may also have other job functions, this video focuses on the TB
interview.
While every patient is unique and every interview should reflect that uniqueness, this video
is intended to provide overall basic guidance and interviewing techniques.
Since program practices may differ, follow your program's standards of practice.
This video uses a checklist to highlight some of the key activities carried out during the
TB interviewing process.
The sections of the checklist shown in this video reflect what happens during this interview.
A complete checklist can be accessed at the Global Tuberculosis Institute website.
The purpose of investigation is quite simple.
It's to identify contacts exposed, high risk and low risk, to get the contacts evaluated.
For those contacts who are infected, we get them on treatment to prevent future disease.
And for those contacts who are diagnosed with disease, we get them on treatment to complete
treatment of therapies to prevent further transmission.
Every case started out as a contact.
So imagine if we did not do contact investigations.
After a patient is reported to the local health department as a presumed case or a confirmed
case, the interview is the first step in identifying those contacts exposed.
You really want to understand as much as you can about the patient prior to the initial
interview.
If you have access to the medical record or any reports, it's good to gather that ahead
of time before meeting the patient.
So we're prepared to either an adherent patient or a non-adherent patient.
Some who speaks English, some who doesn't speak English.
I went to the hospital earlier to try to interview the patient.
She was in a CT scan, but I was able to read the full medical record.
She is a 22-year-old female, born in Ecuador, symptoms of cough, fever, and a 10 to 15-pound
weight loss over the past month.
She was evaluated by her primary physician, and codeine cough syrup was prescribed with
no improvement.
Chest X-ray reported bronchitis, and antibiotics were prescribed with no response.
She was referred to the hospital ER for admission, and a chest X-ray was abnormal with cavitary
disease.
The IGRA was watered, and it's positive.
And sputum was collected, and the AFB smear is positive 3 plus.
So the final culture is still pending.
She's on airborne isolation in a negative pressure room with the diagnosis of presumed
pulmonary TB.
She started on the four-drug regimen as of today.
We want to review the patient's medical history, test results, symptom history, particularly
to help establish the preliminary infectious period, demographic information, where to
locate the patient when discharged, next of kin, all telephone numbers.
We want to know as much about the testing that has been done before we meet with the
patient.
And in this case, the sputum smear was positive, meaning when this patient was coughing, she
was infectious.
It's most important to understand the infectious period, to understand when the patient might
have been the most infectious, and exposed others that they've come in contact with
during that period of time.
She's been sick for four weeks, so starting today, the 12th, so I'll go back a month
into May, and then three months prior to that, into February.
I'm going to interview the patient for the first time.
This is the initial interview when someone has the presumed diagnosis of tuberculosis.
My goal is to establish rapport and trust with this patient and make sure she has a
basic understanding of her diagnosis, and then to discuss contacts.
When I first started interviewing patients for TB, I felt very awkward and unsure, and
I wish that I knew that eventually it would come more naturally.
The initial interview, you really want to identify those high-priority contacts, because
they are the ones that the patient spends the most time with.
They are the closest and probably most important people to the patient, so they are concerned
about their health as well.
There's a lot to cover in the contact investigation, so you do want to have some type
of reminder checklist with you to just go over what is important.
Bringing a checklist into every interview is important, so you don't forget one key
point in the event.
You cannot have another interview with that patient for whatever reason.
So the checklist ensures that you hit all of the topics, not necessarily in order on
the checklist, but at least you know that you've hit the topics you need to cover.
The only advice I can give on a Kentucky initial interview is go into the room with an open
mind.
Every patient is different, culturally, socially, religiously.
The patient may be confused, the patient may be in denial that they have TB.
I may be the first one that's been able to sit down in the room and talk to the patient.
So you listen to what the patient tells you, and you take it step by step from there.
Don't make any assumptions of what their background or their interaction with you will be, because
even within different cultures, religions, there are going to be variations.
So I think we need to walk into the room and be compassionate and be sensitive and to sit
down and have a conversation with the patient.
Maria? Hi, I'm Tana. How are you doing?
Not so good?
Sorry. I'm from the public health department.
I was hoping I could meet with you and talk with you a little bit.
I'm wondering if we could turn off the TV and maybe mute your phone.
Great. So I'm from the local public health department
in the tuberculosis clinic, and once you're diagnosed and started on the four drugs is
when I'm notified that you're here, and I want to be able to explain what services our
clinic can provide for you as well as help you understand your diagnosis and maybe answer
any questions you might have regarding what you've been told by the doctors.
They really didn't say anything. Just a lot of people coming in just to want to be here.
I understand. They don't talk to me. They say it was pneumonia,
first, mucus, TB, but I don't understand why I'm here.
Let me help you sort this out, okay? Introduction is extremely important. You
introduce yourself, show your identification, be cordial, be friendly, be professional.
You don't want to come across as an interrogator. You want to explain the purpose of your visit.
You have one chance to make a first impression. We want to sit down. We want to be empathetic.
We want to be compassionate. We want to display that, demonstrate that to the patient.
She, in essence, asked the patient if it was okay. Can you mute your TV, turn off the TV
and mute the phone? And by the patient doing that, it gave her permission to continue with
the interview. Ideally, it's a good thing to say to a patient,
so tell me why you're here. What have the doctors told you? And then Maria did say,
well, they said pneumonia, they said bronchitis, they said TB. That's an opportunity for, ideally,
for an interviewer to say, well, tell me what you know about TB. And that can start off
a whole education piece about what the patient knows or doesn't know about TB.
The way I do interviewing is to provide a block of information up front where you talk
about how TB is transmitted, the length of time that it takes to treat it. I'll do that
up front, but I still give it, you know, in peace, repeat it throughout the interview.
We just want to make sure the patient understands how TB is transmitted, how it was not transmitted,
the importance of identifying contacts, the importance of getting those contacts evaluated.
Make sure they understand they were infected sometime in the past and they developed TB
disease. Equally as important, they need to understand
that just because someone's exposed, it doesn't mean that they're going to get infected because
patients will be concerned about exposing, whether it's children or other people.
You know, today's June 12th. When did you kind of start to feel sick?
I don't really recall, but I mean, I started getting the fevers and chills all the time.
These annoying coughs, like it's for like maybe a month, I would say.
For about a month? Okay.
Yes.
Were you sick around Memorial Day, that three-day holiday?
I started feeling already sick.
You were already sick then?
People are sicker longer than they think.
So although a medical record could say the person was sick for a month or four weeks,
I will always ask the patient when they first started getting symptoms.
Then you got an antibiotic, which didn't help either, I understand.
Yeah, I think so. I just don't remember.
They gave me so many things. They gave me exams.
I think they might have done x-rays too.
Right. The diagnosis of tuberculosis came up after they knew you were sick for a while
and didn't respond to the treatment your primary physician started, from what I read.
And then the most recent x-ray was not good and showed a cavity in your lung.
So that was important.
What is a cavity?
Like a hole. The bacteria has actually caused a hole in your lung,
which can be treated with the medicines that they've started you on.
As interviewers, we're trained to ask certain questions.
We're trained to ask questions in a certain way.
We're also trained to stick to a format.
But every patient is different.
We may want to proceed on our preplanned agenda,
but the patient may take us in a different direction.
And so we need to listen to the patient
and let the patient lead us through the interview.
Although we do want to keep the interview on track,
sometimes it will go off track,
and you have to let the patient go off track a little while,
and then you just bring it back.
It's a blank slate. We want to hear from the patient.
We want to determine what the patient knows about TB.
We want to start building that trust and rapport, providing education.
Trust and rapport is very important in the TB interview
because you're going to be asking so many questions,
and some of them are intimate questions.
The more comfortable the patient is with the interviewer,
the better the relationship, and the more that they'll open up to you.
And so that could take weeks.
That could take multiple conversations with the patient over time.
I go in, of course, with my pre-structured questions to ask,
but you listen to the patient and hear where they are.
How are you today? How's everything going?
Simple questions like that can break down a wall.
And we're relying upon the patient to work with us
to identify those people who are exposed.
If we don't have the patient working with us,
we're going to miss contacts.
So I have your address as 1511 West Street.
Yes.
Okay.
We want to make sure that what you got from the record is accurate.
Sometimes patients make up names when they get admitted to a hospital,
and so we want to make sure we have the right information,
a way to find the patient.
If the patient leaves against medical advice,
if the patient becomes non-inherent,
we want to understand where to find the patient.
The bacteria with TB is airborne.
That's why it's so important that you cover your mouth each time you cough, okay?
And we'll get some tissues from the nurses when I go out to the desk.
The disease is airborne.
It's in the air and it stays in the air, and people breathe it in.
And that's why I'm wearing a mask.
When you cough, or they even say when you laugh or you sing,
the bacteria goes through the air,
and it can land on the table or the door handle and die.
But if it's in the air and you breathe it in,
and you spend a long time with somebody,
that's the way the bacteria is transmitted.
She capitalized on the opportunities.
For example, when the patient was coughing,
she explained to her the importance of covering her cough and explained,
used that as an opportunity to explain the reason why she was wearing a mask.
So that information that was imparted at that time is anchored in something.
It's important for you to explain to the patient the reason why you have to wear the mask
so that way you break down any negative implications
or negative interpretation on the patient's part.
The patient can't see your face.
They only see your eyes, and you're asking questions where you've been, who you've been with.
The nurse did a great job of explaining why the mask was worn,
and so I think it probably put Maria at ease and made it a little more personal.
How did I get this? I don't understand.
Were you ever positive with a skin test when you came from Ecuador?
What is a skin test?
To see if a bump showed up, did you ever have one of those tests?
Yeah, I mean, they did it when I got here.
Okay.
Ten years ago, then I think they sent me for x-ray, but I don't remember.
I will have to ask my parents.
Sure.
So long ago.
In your case, it probably has been sitting there for a long time, just dormant.
We call it just latent.
You want to explain to the patient the difference between TB infection and TB disease.
That was not an opportunity for Janet to explain that your positive skin test means you were infected.
Unfortunately, you didn't take preventative treatment.
Now you have disease.
So it's important now for your contacts, when they come in to be tested, if they are infected,
it's important that they all take preventative treatment so they don't get disease later in life.
By identifying the contacts, you're preventing them from having to go through what you went through.
I know I'm going to be here. I don't want to be here anymore.
Well, that's up to the doctors, but we want to make sure that you're feeling stronger and that you're not infectious.
You know how they collected sputum?
Sputum is the phlegm that you cough up, and they collected it earlier to test it.
That was an important test to tell us that you were infectious, and they may continue to do that.
For how long?
Well, until it changes, and the medicines will help do that.
I'm going to be cured?
Yes. That's the best thing about tuberculosis, is that it's curable.
That may take about six months. You're not on the Ford drive.
I'm going to be here six months?
Not in a hospital. We can get you the medicines from the public health department at no cost,
and we can bring them to your house Monday through Friday.
Is it going to be you?
It could be me, or there is an outreach worker for the program.
You started with the four drugs now. After a period of time, that goes down to two.
It's very important that the medicines are taken, and you're compliant with that, and we'll help you through that, okay?
Yes.
You've been sick a while. We need to determine how long you've been sick and when you were infectious to other people.
We've taken the four weeks that you were sick, beginning at May 1st, and gone three months prior,
and that's considered the infectious period, and that's why we're identifying some of the people
you might have exposed while you were coughing and infectious.
People that you've spent the most time with, your family, your good friends, and go from there, okay?
During an interview, you want to explain to the patient the infectious period
and the importance of identifying exactly, you know, as close as possible when that period is.
You cannot do a quality investigation without establishing the infectious period.
The infectious period is not an exact science.
It's a presumed period of time that we believe the patient was probably the most contagious.
So when you ask them, when did you first have symptoms, and they say,
oh, I've been coughing for four months, then you tell them, well, we go back three more months,
so I'm looking at seven months ago.
Once the infectious period is established, the focus of the entire interview now is on contact identification.
We want to make sure the patient understands the importance of identifying high-risk and lower-risk contacts,
and we explain that to the patient what that means.
We want to collect all the information, and we'll decide together who really needs to be tested first to prevent disease.
You live with your parents?
Yes.
And your parents know you're here?
Yes.
Okay.
Anybody else at the house?
Yeah, my brother and my sister.
And are you, is your mom and dad Mr. and Mrs. Sanchez?
Yes.
Okay.
How old are they?
54.
For each contact, the information collected is critical.
Name, aliases, nicknames, dates of birth, where they live, phone numbers, next of kin, where they work,
what school they go to, and I like to get physical descriptions of all contacts.
Five, three, two, two, five, two, five.
Two, five?
Two, five.
Two, five.
And you've talked to them, they've visited, they understand what's going on here?
I have spoken to them, but they're still a little confused.
I just feel bad for them.
I don't want anybody to be sick.
I know.
I know.
It's bad.
Well, that's why it's so important to identify these contacts and get them tested as soon as possible.
And we'll make all those arrangements, okay?
They can call me if they have any questions, and then I can help arrange a time for them
and your sister and brother to come in for testing, okay?
And your brother is how old?
My brother is 18.
18, and his name is?
Alejandro.
Is it Alejandro Sanchez like you?
Yes.
Okay.
And your sister?
Gabriella.
Gabriella, uh-huh.
She is 15.
We want to have the patient be part of the interview, so we need to be aware of not asking
leading questions or closing their questions.
Especially if they don't want to talk to you, they will love a yes or no answer to shut
down an interview.
So you ask open-ended questions, which will require a little bit more than a yes or no
or an explanation.
There were a few instances where closed-ended questions were asked.
And I would have much preferred that they were open-ended questions.
Some good close girlfriends, a boyfriend?
Yes, my boyfriend.
What's his name?
Alexander.
His last name is what?
Santos.
Santos, okay.
Is he in school with you?
No.
Where is he?
He works and he goes to like part-time other school.
Okay, okay.
Does he live in the same town?
Yes.
Do you spend time with him or does he come to your house often?
Yes, but I spend a lot of time with him also on the weekends.
And when's the last time you saw him?
Yesterday.
Yesterday?
Okay.
Before you were admitted?
Yes.
He was with me when I got him ready.
So we would consider him pretty much a high risk here.
Do you want to discuss this with him or do you want?
I don't know how to approach this with him.
I don't think he's going to take it well.
I mean, I prefer that somebody like you maybe will be better managing the situation.
Sure.
I can meet him here and meet with you or if you want me to call him.
Why don't you let me know?
He might get silly and say, oh, I cheated on him and he might break up with me.
It has nothing to do with your sexual activity.
Again, when we're talking about how TB is transmitted, it's airborne.
But it's treatable and we can treat and test your family members,
your boyfriend and your good friends.
And I'll just say that we know that they've been exposed.
If you tell them, that's fine.
And they can call me and I can arrange testing and we can get them in.

Oh, that was lovely.
She took that opportunity to again explain that that's not how TB is transmitted.
It's when you cough in the air, sneeze and things of that nature.
So that was handled beautifully.
So we can talk to Alexander about that.
Yes.
How old is he?
He's 28.
Date of birth on him?
January 24th.
Okay.
And where does he live?
He lives in 21, 20, 33rd row.
And who else is at the home with Alexander?
He lives by himself.
Does he have a phone number?
Yes.
646-323-4432.
And you spend time with his family also?
I will say yes and no because when I go with him to pick up Elias,
it's his son.
I just say hi to the grandparents.
How old is Elias?
He's three.
Three.
Okay.
That's really important for us to know, Maria.
Because we consider a three-year-old or anybody under five, actually,
a very high-risk contact, somebody that you may have exposed
because children break down to disease very quickly.

That's horrible.
So that's okay.
We can get him tested right away and talk to his pediatrician if need be.

Yes.
You talked about the grandparents of Alexander's son.
Do you know their address?
Once Maria was showing emotions about the boyfriend's son being exposed,
I think Janet ideally could have spent a little more time talking about
just because someone's exposed, it doesn't mean transmission will occur.
We need to allay any kind of anxiety or nervousness about transmission.
I think there's lots of misconceptions about TB.
Do you see them a lot?
I have spoken to the grandma more.
Normally we just speak really like very minimal, like 10 to 15 minutes.
Okay.
I don't really talk to the grandfather because he's never home.
She's working.
But there are occasions that she's not there because she's sick.
Oh, really?
And I just wait in the car until Alexander goes get Elias in the house.
Grandfather is there.
What's been wrong with his grandmother?
Something with her sugar, I think high sugar.
I mean, I didn't want to be, you know, too curious about,
but I mean, I heard them talking about it.
The individual who is sick might not necessarily be the person who is the real index.
So you want to identify all of the individuals whom the index,
the current index exposed and who could have exposed the current index.
So you're looking for persons who are not yet symptomatic
as well as you're looking for persons who are symptomatic and could possibly be sick.
So it sounds like she might be a diabetic and so we'll get her tested
because a diabetic is considered a high risk for breaking down to disease.
Okay.
Yes.
Again, if they have lots of questions or concerns,
I can spend some time explaining to them.
Yes, please.
When's the last time you saw both of them?
Well, I saw the grandma last weekend when we went to pick up Elias.
And what's her name?
Her name is Andrea.
Andrea.
And what's the last name?
Santos.
The consensus circle model actually is designed to assist in contact investigations
or really focus on three factors, the infectiousness of the patient,
the duration and frequency of exposure during infectious period
and the environment of exposure during infectious periods.
So the consensus circle model really is a secondary tool in these investigations.
The primary tool is the interviewer or the investigator.
It's their responsibility to determine who's high risk, who's low risk, and who's worried well.
We also look at the contacts. Who are the contacts?
Are they infants, children, elderly? Are they immunocompetent, immunocompromised?
What's their lifestyle?
And so once the investigator or the interviewer determines who's high and who's low risk,
they then can turn to the model and use that as a visual of the work they just did.
So they can either put names or numbers in the circles, the high risk circle,
and names and numbers in the low risk circle.
So it helps them determine where to start testing.
The thinking is, if there's no transmission and people have the most exposure,
it's unlikely you need to expand to low risk contacts.
However, if you do find transmission in the inner circle,
depending on standard of practice of the health department,
you can then expand to low risk contacts.
By sticking to the model, you potentially are avoiding unnecessary testing of large amounts of people.
It didn't sound like Maria saw the grandmother that much or spent a long period of time with her.
But once you learned that this grandmother had been hospitalized as diabetic,
these are red flags, these are concerns.
So we kept her on the low risk circle in the consensual circle model in terms of exposure, time spent.
But because she was uncontrolled diabetic,
Janna felt as if we should get her tested because if she's positive on the IGRAs, she could progress to disease.
Children under five, number one, persons who are immunosuppressed,
whether it's by HIV, diabetes or cancer or any of the other medical conditions,
you want to get those individuals evaluated as quickly as possible because they can progress,
especially children, they can progress from infection to disease very quickly
because the immune system is underdeveloped.
And similarly for those who are immunosuppressed,
they can progress from infection to disease very quickly.
So you want to get them evaluated and hopefully in treatment quickly.
So I just wanted to check where you go to school.
Greenfield.
And your major is?
Business.
You're studying business, great.
I'll meet with the dean of the college and just explain that there's been exposure
and discuss with that person your name and get your class schedule and determine where you go.
And then sometimes we would go and actually look at the classroom,
see how big they are and how many students attend.
Are you going to tell them that it was me?
I would have to discuss it with the dean of the school to identify you and then your class schedule, yes.
What is going to happen?
I registered for summer courts.
We're hoping to get you back.
I'm close to finishing my college and I'm registered for my class
and I just feel like my life is going to stop because of this.
When I first started, I wish I knew the impact this diagnosis had on the individual.
The stigma, the impact it has in terms of changing a person's life,
interrupting their work, their school, and affecting their family and friends.
It's easy to be rejected by people at school.
So that's a place actually that I'm most worried about.
Every time that you interact with a patient, you should remind them, you know,
that information that you share with me is confidential.
I will not share that information with anyone except in certain situations.
A lot of times that does help the patient open up and be more forthcoming with contents
because they know they don't have to worry that they would be identified as that source.
So that way you can reassure them because even in today's society,
when you know, you know, you hear so much about TB, it's still stigmatized.
Patients are ostracized and treated badly.
We should explain to the patient that the name and the diagnosis will only be shared on a need-to-know basis.
That if we meet with the principal of a school or dean of a college,
that they will keep the name confidential that other students will not know, other teachers will not know.
Janet could have asked the patient, please tell me the courses that you're taking,
the names of the courses, how often the course meets, how many hours you spend in class daily or weekly.
Because then Janet could take that information to the dean to confirm it.
You would want to identify the schoolmates who have the same class schedule or share, you know, several classes together.
If they spend time studying, if they walk back and forth to class and, you know, they sit next to each other, they lunch together.
Those, that's how you would identify who the high-risk contacts are in a congregate environment.
The more time spent with the index patient.
In the congregate setting, it really depends on what the patient tells us initially.
And then we meet with management of the congregate setting.
And so the management will help us decide who really, in their opinion, is a high-risk or low-risk or worried well individual.
You have a busy schedule with school, but do you have time for activities?
I go to church and sometimes they have activities after church.
Can you think back since February, have you been, is it a Bible study after?
It's more like collecting things that have been used to send away for people that need it in other countries.
Is that every week? Every Sunday?
That's probably every other Sunday.
There's sometimes when it's unavoidable that you have to ask close-ended questions.
But for the most part, you should ask questions that will get the patient talking about him or herself or about his or her situation.
Are you in any clubs or activities?
But I do sports.
Oh, you do?
I'm a soccer player.
Oh, on a club team for school?
No, I used to separate outside school.
Are you with the same people all the time?
Yes.
And practices, how often?
Twice a week.
Twice. Do you drive yourself or do you carpool with friends?
I normally get picked up. They switch.
It depends on one day, one event, because I don't want cards.
Both of them have cards, so one of them picks me up, let's say, one day and the other one. It depends.
Let me get their names and addresses, too.
Christina Villar and Michelle Romero.
After practice, do you go out for a bite to eat?
Yeah, sometimes we do that.
We spend a lot of time together. They're my closest friends.
That's important that we reach out to them, too, and offer them testing.
It sounds like you spend a lot of good time with them.
In the soccer setting, the rides back and forth is definitely going to be the higher priority contacts.
How long is that ride and how frequently do they share the ride? And outside of the ride, what other activities do they do?
Maria named two soccer players as social contacts, so that was pretty clear based on the information in the scenario that they were going to be high-risk contacts.
Janet needs to explore the rest of the soccer team.
Was there any indoor practices? Is there a locker room that they share? Do they have soccer meetings?
So that's something that needs to be determined later on, so Janet will need to meet with the soccer coach
and determine whether any other soccer players would be considered high-risk.
Soccer season's still going?
Yes.
So when's the last time you were with Christina and Michelle?
I met them Monday.
Monday?
Yes.
Okay.
Are you on Facebook?
I am.
You might want to look through your phone and see any activities that you've been doing on social media, on Facebook or Instagram.
Since February 1st, that would be important.
In the infectious periods, at least three months could be longer, and so patients may have a hard time remembering who they were with.
And so that's a mechanism for the patient to say, yeah, let me check because I may have forgotten that I was with some people three or four months ago,
but checking social media, it could trigger off some memories of who she was with.
I just want to go home.
I understand.
I'm tired.
If a patient's in a hospital, there's no guarantee they'll be there if we're coming back the next day.
And so some believe that when you're interviewing a patient for the first time, don't stop.
Get everything you need.
And some believe that you need to recognize when to stop a stalled interview and come back the next day.
We need to be aware of where the patient is at during the interview.
If a patient starts saying, I'm tired, then that's a flag right away that we should bring it to an end and come back tomorrow when the patient's well rested in a few days.
So I think it's up to the interviewer to decide the proper time to end the interview.
Again, I think we have to be careful of pushing on because that could turn the patient off and stop the flow of information.
And I have a folder here with education materials that might answer some questions also.
I'll leave with you with my business card.

Yes.
We throw a lot of information at patients in the first meeting, and it's a lot to absorb.
And sometimes the patient doesn't remember everything we say.
So by leaving hard copies of information, they can read it at their leisure.
They have something that they can read in quiet time and formulate questions that they can ask you the next time that they see you.
And I'll be back to talk further before you go home from the hospital.
And then I'll be meeting with you at the house and making sure that you're tolerating the medicines, bringing the medicines to you, getting the services of our clinic available to you.
Okay.
Yes.
All right.
It's so good to meet you.
And you have my number.
If there's any questions or if anybody's asking a lot of information, just let me know.
Okay.
Take care.
Bye.
All right.
Conclusion of the interview is just wrapping up, asking the patient any questions that they want to ask, reviewing the importance of treatment adherence when discharged or even when they're in the hospital,
leaving your business card, any questions they have, they can call and to set up a re-interview as well.
The way she spoke to me was very reassuring.
I think she was very patient with me because I didn't want to talk to her in the beginning.
But as soon as she started giving more information on why I'm here, that made me realize that she was very...
Does she care about me being here and why?
She wanted me to know the why.
It's very common that somebody does not have any clue what's going on in the hospital.
People are in and out of their rooms, especially when they're on isolation.
And so be able to sit and answer questions, provide educational materials is so important.
She made it seem that she would find a way to protect me and protect them by doing all these tests.
So I really appreciate it because people are very important to me and I don't want them to be sick.
I'm going to start reaching out to the contacts immediately.
Maria's household, her parents and her siblings, her boyfriend and his son as well as his grandmother
and the two good friends who Maria carpools twice a week with to the soccer field.
We'll reach out to the dean of the college as well as the minister at the church to identify the risk of potential contacts there.
A re-interview is very important in TB control.
When we interview them in the hospital, they may be reluctant to give us information.
They may be hiding information on purpose or they may be unintentionally hiding information.
The home interview or the re-interview in the home or the living space of the patient is very important
because it is in the living space of the patient that we can confirm what the patient originally told us.
I live alone or I live with children or I don't have children.
If the patient in the hospital says, I live alone with my spouse or my boyfriend,
and we go to the home setting, we may find toys, children's shoes laying around.
That's an opportunity for further questioning.
I'm here at Maria's house to meet with her after her hospital discharge,
check on her, see how she's doing and to identify any possible contacts she may have thought of since she's been discharged.
I was able to check on her a couple times in the hospital after the initial interview
and now I'm anxious to see how she's doing at home.

Hi, Maria.
How are you?
I'm good. How are you doing?
Thank you for coming.
Since I first met with Maria, I've been able to reach out to the contacts and the names she provided,
get them all tested as well as reach out to the dean of the college
and the minister at the church to determine exposure at those locations
as well as her primary physician to determine who she may have been in contact with at the office.

Thank you very much.
Thank you for coming. I appreciate it.
It's good to see you. You look so much better than that first time.

Oh my goodness.
Thank you so much.
You're feeling?
I really appreciate it.
Yes, I feel a little better.
That's great.
Well, the outreach worker tells me that you're tolerating the meds really well
and that you're right on schedule and compliant, so that's really good news.
I like the fact that Janet reached out and touched the patient, held her hand,
but I think we have to be careful of gender issues and cultural issues as well.
But I think it was very nice that she did that.
Maria and I have a very comfortable relationship built on the trust and rapport
that was established during her hospitalization,
providing information and reassurance to her during this critical time.
There are days that I'm still tired, but I'm feeling better than the cough.
And we talked about that. The fatigue is going to be there.
But the outreach worker says you're keeping right on schedule with the appointments.
No, she's very good, and she always is calling me to see if there's anything different from the pills
or you feel okay, anything different.

Yeah, I like it because I have a lot of people that are caring, so it makes me feel much better.
I appreciate it.
Wonderful.
Am I interrupting your cooking?
No, no, no.
Nice cookbooks.
I actually don't like cooking. I hate it.
Oh.
I don't like it.
Who's the chef in the family then?
Oh, that's my cousin.
Oh, your cousin? Okay. Is she here regularly? Does she come to cook?
Yeah, she comes on weekends.
And how long does she stay here with you?
She started coming on weekends since January.
Oh, okay.
Because that's when her semester started.
So that falls into the infectious period. We had February 1st when we were concerned about contacts.
She doesn't live here, just the people that live in your house.
Right, right. But she comes pretty much every weekend, you're describing.

And she stays overnight?
She stays overnight.
And?
She has an intense core, so it's every weekend that she comes, it's convenient for her.
Okay.
Instead of going back to her house, she stays here.
Do you share a bedroom by any chance?
She normally goes to my sister's room.
What's her name?
It's Natalie Sanchez. I think she might be living with her dad.
Oh, thank God. Everybody has a cell phone. Makes it much easier.
About how old is she?
She's 23.
23?
9-1-7.
The home interview is so important because you never know what you're going to find.
Maybe someone babysits once or twice a week, and that's very important in a contact investigation.
I don't know if I misunderstood the question at the hospital, but I thought that she referred only the people that live with me,
but not the people that interact with me in the house.
So maybe if she would have framed the question differently in the hospital, I would have probably mentioned,
well, my cousin doesn't live there, but she comes in the house.
The contacts that are given is dependent upon the patient's interpretation of what a contact means.
Marie did not name her cousin because of the way the question was asked.
She listed the persons who are permanent residents in her house.
So it's just how questions are worded.
You have to be very broad and yet specific when you're asking questions to identify contacts.
You've really given us a lot of information, and we really appreciate that.
All the contacts that you talked about initially have been tested,
and I've met with the college dean and the minister at church, and that's ongoing.
Have you had a chance at all to think about possibly anybody else that you might have come in contact
during that infectious period beginning February 1st?
Yes.
I actually have a professor that I did an internship with, and he's a business professor from school as well.
Okay. What's his name?
Robert McKenzie, but I normally work at home, so I just go and follow up with him
in case if he's going to give me new assignments or he's going to check how is the research going on.
How often did you meet?
We met once a week.
Once a week for how long?
Since the semester started.
Uh-huh. How long was the meeting?
It was for an hour and a half.
Okay. And when was the last time you saw him?
I think it was right before I started feeling sick.
Okay.
Because I cancelled an appointment because I thought I was not feeling well.
Would you say that was in May?
I would say it was May.
Okay. And where would you meet?
His office.
His office?
Yes.
How big is that office?
It's really small. It's really crowded. It's really tiny. It's not big.
So you were in close quarters with him.
So I can follow up with the dean of the college with Professor McKenzie.
Alright.
Okay.
Okay.
If you had any other time to think of additional people that you've met,
maybe checking your social media, your activities?
Yes.
Oh, you have. Okay.
I met with my high school friend.
When was that?
That was for spring break.
Spring break? Was that March?
Yeah, it started March 3rd. We had a week off.
Okay.
So she stayed here with me.
She was here a whole week?
Yes.
What did you do?
We went to the park.
Okay.
It was my house too.
Okay.
She mainly stayed. We stayed in the house, mainly catching up.
Oh, good.
I don't know if I should reach out to her or do you think...
It's up to you. I can reach out and just say that we know she's been exposed.
I just don't want her to get scared because I don't know if she's going to understand.
Well, I can reassure her too that we're reaching out to people that we've identified as being exposed and go from there.

What's her name?
Her name is Camila Rivera.
What's her phone number?
As Janet was working through the interview, you could see where Janet's compassion and her sensitivity
and answering Maria's questions kind of allayed some of Maria's fears and anxiety.
And by the time we got to the re-interview, you could see that Maria was a different person.
We've talked a lot about some of this before, but just go over possibly any appointments that you might have had during that period from February 1st on?
No, no appointments.
Any dental appointments? Did you try to get those in when you were on break?
No.
Any travel?
No, no travel.
Is there anyone else you can think of at this point?
No, I think pretty much I have given you all the information.
Great.
She asked about travel, but she did not ask if Maria had visitors that came from Ecuador, spent time with her family,
and then gone backward because she didn't think of them as contacts, just as she did not think of her cousin as a contact.
Thank you so much for all this information. All those contacts you've told me about have been tested, so that's great.
We're exploring the school and church exposures, and I've been in touch with the dean and the minister, so that's in progress.
And now these three new names are great. Your professor, I'll reach out to the dean at school and contact him.
Your cousin, most definitely, and your close friend that was here for the week during spring break.
It's so important because now they can be evaluated and treated if necessary.
Are there any other questions, anything else I can answer for you?
No, I think you're very helpful, Ian.
If there's any questions that you have, if there's any other names that you come up with, you have my number, so please give me a call, okay?

Anything else I can help you with?
All right.
Thank you so much for all that.
You're very welcome.
It's great.
Thank you for coming.
You're welcome.
I think the interview went very well with Maria. She was able to provide three new high-risk contacts, so I'll be reaching out to them right away.
Her cousin has been coming for the last six months or more and staying for the entire weekend.
The professor concerns me, the fact that they met on a regular basis in a small setting.
And then her friend that was here for a whole week, she stayed overnight. That's of concern.
I really care about my family and friends.
And as I mentioned to her, I don't want anybody to be feeling sick. It's really a horrible feeling.
And I was really worried that this would be, you know, keep spreading or life has something.
And I'm really happy they're going to take care of everything.
I think the best thing to do when you are interviewing a patient in these circumstances is not to be an interrogator.
You want to build that rapport and trust. The patient really needs to have that with you.
And so they will be comfortable sharing the information.
I like the fact that she said if I need help or any other questions, then I can call her.
So I still feel like that is the relationship going, regardless of me feeling okay or not.
I don't think we're officially done ever. I think she may still continue to remember something.
And she knows where to reach me. And we'll be seeing her regularly through the clinic and with directly observed therapy.
So I'm hoping if she recalls anything else that she'll share it with us right away.
Some of the common mistakes interviews make are too many close-ended questions.
Perhaps not providing good education, not addressing the patient's concerns about transmission.
Asking too many questions all at once and not getting a thorough answer first.
Not listening to the patient because the patient tells you, you know, tells you their life story if you listen carefully.
You know, they'll tell you, they'll give you identify places that you should do contact investigation if you listen carefully.
Those can be missed opportunities because, you know, you're so focused on answering the questions that you have on your data collection sheet
that you don't always hear what the patient is saying.
One of the mistakes that are made is the issue of surrounding confidentiality.
It's not stressed enough that information can be shared on need-to-know basis.
Sometimes interviewers say, everything that we say in this room will stay in this room.
That's not really true.
Most patients are cooperative. Most patients are willing to name contacts.
It's being compassionate and sensitive to patients and aware of the fact that they're in a hospital.
They're not feeling well. They may be in denial. They don't understand how they got TB.
They're upset about it. They're afraid that people are going to find out.
Sometimes you have patients who are in the hospital and just by being in the hospital, they're in a bad place.
And that makes the interview very difficult. Their head is elsewhere.
You know, being concerned about living arrangements, living arrangements that they may lose, you know, just by being in a hospital.
So that, you know, addressing those priorities are more important for the patient.
And as a result, they really don't necessarily want to hear someone, you know, trying to pry further into their lives.
If the interview isn't going well, there could be various reasons for that.
It could be gender reasons. It could be cultural reasons.
And so if the health department has the luxury of having different people on staff, changing interviewers could be a crucial decision to make.
You'll just have to try different approaches.
It might not be evident very quickly what the barrier to the interview is, but you have to just try different strategies to see what works.
It's a mistake to push on if clearly the patient has walls up, whether it's walls that they don't want to cooperate or whether they're tired.
We need to recognize that. We need to want to stop a stalled interview and resume it the next day or come back a few days later.
We cannot give the patient time to adjust to their diagnosis because when we see a patient, it's usually a day or two after they're admitted.
We don't work in a void in TB control. We have colleagues. We have staff members. We have doctors and nurses and outreach workers.
And we all do the same work. We all care about the patients.
And I think it's important that we all review cases with each other to get different perceptions of the case, different ideas of what to pursue.
The role of a supervisor or another experienced colleague, whether it's in the state health department or local health department, is actually to bounce information off to get input.
To help the interviewer ensure that they've exhausted all the avenues of potential contacts that the patient had given you.
They'll review the interview notes or discuss the case and hear the information that the patient provided the interviewer.
Or if there's any bumps along the way, then you talk so you could coordinate and maybe troubleshoot some alternative ways to get people in tested and on appropriate treatment.
You may miss some things. And the supervisor is there to provide guidance to say, well, okay, you know something, you didn't ask about this or the patient mentioned that she participates in sports.
Did you identify any contacts? You need to re-interview for those contacts.
So the supervisor is there to review the work and to identify if there are any gaps or any unasked questions and give guidance to go back, do the re-interview and ask those questions to make sure that you're covering all your bases.
No interview is ever perfect because there's no way for you to tell if you've identified 100% of the patient contacts.
Every interviewer is different. Every patient is different. And so there's no set way of doing these.
So when you walk into each individual patient's room, you have to have an open mind and you just let the next question come from the answer you got from the question before.
If the patient feels as though the interviewer genuinely cares about his or her well-being and genuinely cares about how they feel and getting them better, the more cooperative the patient will be in terms of identifying contacts and working with you.
While every TB patient is unique and interviewers may differ in style, this interviewer carried out the essential tasks of building trust and rapport, providing information and education, and identifying and collecting information on high and low-risk contacts in the initial interview and additional contacts in a re-interview, preferably in the living space of the patient.
Thank you.
Thank you.
